.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH SYNAPTIC 8 "Jun 10, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
synaptic \- Graphical frontend for package management
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsynaptic\fP [options]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Synaptic is a graphical frontend for apt.
Synaptic is used very much like apt-get. Usually you do an
`update' which will update the package list from the servers in your
\fIsources.list\fR file. Note that no packages are updated in this step,
only information about the packages. Now you can view what packages
are `upgradable'. To do this, just click on the filter `Upgradable'.
The main list will change and you will see only those packages where
a new version is available on the server. You can now upgrade
individual packages by selecting them and then clicking on the small
`upgrade' button on the left (or double click in the gtk-version) or
choose to upgrade all packages by clicking on the big `Upgrade' button
on the top. No packages will downloaded/upgraded yet, they are only
marked as to be upgraded. You may want to change the filter again to
`Expected Changes' to see what will happen if you continue. If you
like what you see, click `Proceed!' and synaptic will download the
packages and install them. 
.TP
.SH Difference between `Upgrade all' and `DistUpgrade'
The difference between `Upgrade all' and `DistUpgrade' is small but
important. `Upgrade all' means: Mark packages that are upgradable for
upgrade, except those with new dependencies. Under no circumstances
are currently installed packages removed, or packages not already
installed retrieved and installed. 

`DistUpgrade', in addition to performing the function of `Upgrade
all', also intelligently handles changing dependencies with new
versions of packages and uses a smart conflict resolution system if
necessary. 

Usually you only need `DistUpgrade' if you upgrade between major
versions of your distribution.
.TP
.SH Selecting Multiple Packages
You can select more than one package at a time. You have to
use SHIFT or CTRL to select multiple packages. If you click on a action 
(install/upgrade/remove) for multiple packages, the action will be performed
for each package (as you probably already guessed (: ).
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
.TP
.SH Keybindings
The gtk has some global keybindings:
.br
\fBCTRL-n\fR do not modify
.br
\fBCTRL-i\fR install
.br
\fBCTRL-r\fR remove
.br
\fBCTRL-f\fR search 
.br
\fBCTRL-g\fR upgrade
.br
\fBCTRL-u\fR update
.br
\fBCTRL-e\fR execute changes
.br
\fBCTRL-q\fR quit

.TP
.SH Filters
Synaptic displays the main package list according to the filter you
selected. The most simple filter is of course `All packages'. But
there are much more filters than that. You can view the predefined
filters and make your own filters by clicking on `Filters' above the
main package list. 

.SH OPTIONS
Synaptic recognizes the standard X options as well as the following:
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB\-\-filter-file\fR=\fIfilename\fR
give a alternative filter file
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB\-\-initial-filter\fR=\fIint\fR
start with filter nr. \fIint\fR
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB\-\-option\fR=\fIoption\fR
set a synaptic/apt option (expert only)

.SH AUTHORS
Synaptic was developed by Alfredo K. Kojima
<kojima@conectiva.com.br>. His last official release was 0.16. Michael
Vogt <mvo@debian.org> took over his CVS version, where Alfredo added a
nearly complete port to Gtk+. Michael completed the port and added some new
features. See the \fINEWS\fR file for the user visible changes from
that point on. Conectiva is still involved in the development of
synaptic. Gustavo Niemeyer <niemeyer@conectiva.com> is doing a
great deal of work.
.PP
All development is done at http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/synaptic
.PP
This manual page was written by Wybo Dekker <wybo@servalys.nl> and 
Michael Vogt <mvo@debian.org>.
